# Heat Equation Solver using MPI

This repository contains an implementation of a parallelized solver for the Heat Equation using the Message Passing Interface (MPI). The solver uses a Fourier spectral method to solve the partial differential equation and the solution is obtained using the ODE integration routine provided by the scipy.integrate module.
The solver is written in Python and consists of the following files:

## 1) diffusionMPI.py

This file contains the main code for solving the Heat Equation using MPI. The code uses the mpi4py library to parallelize the code across multiple processors.

The code has been written in Python and requires the following packages to be installed:

    numpy
    matplotlib
    scipy
    mpi4py

## Usage

The solver can be run on a cluster or on a multi-core machine using the following command:

    mpiexec -n <number of processes> python diffusionMPI.py

where <number of processes> is the number of processes to be used in parallelization.

The output of the code is saved in the current and outputfolder directory, which is created if it does not exist. The output includes a logfile and a plot of the temperature as a function of temperature and time.

## 2) Diffusionplot.py

This Python script reads log files generated by a serial run and multiple parallel runs of a diffusion calculation. It then creates a plot with the computing time on the Y-axis and the number of cores on the X-axis. Amdahl's law is also displayed on the plot for comparison purposes.
Prerequisites

This script requires the following Python modules to be installed:

    glob
    numpy
    matplotlib

Usage

    1.- Place the script and log files in the same directory.
    2.- Open a terminal and navigate to the directory containing the script and log files.
    3.- Run the script by typing  python diffusionplot.py.
    4.- The script will create a plot showing the computing time on the Y-axis and the number of cores on the X-axis. Amdahl's law is also displayed on the plot for comparison purposes.
    5.- The resulting plot will be saved in a file named Mpi_plot.png in the output_folder directory.


## Comments on findings

The plot generated by the script shows that as the number of cores used in the parallel runs increases, the computing time decreases, as expected. However, the plot also shows that the decrease in computing time is not proportional to the increase in the number of cores used but it is inversely proportional to it. This is in agreement with Amdahl's law t/n, which predicts that the speedup gained from parallelizing a computation is limited by the portion of the computation that must be performed sequentially.
